icicle v 1.0.0 docs (#10)
ingonyama-zk/developer-docs: docs/icicle/introduction.md

# Getting started with ICICLE

> This guide is oriented towards developers who want to start writing code with the ICICLE libraries. If you just want to run your existing ZK circuits on GPU refer to TODO[this guide](https://github.com/ingonyama-zk/icicle/tree/main/icicle) please.

Reviewer: Is this link still a TODO or is this the correct link?
```suggestion
This guide is oriented towards developers who want to start writing code with the ICICLE libraries. If you just want to run your existing ZK circuits on GPU refer to [this guide](https://github.com/ingonyama-zk/icicle/tree/main/icicle) please.
```

## ICICLE repository overview

![ICICLE API overview](../../static/img/iciclestructure.png)

> The diagram above displays the general architecture of ICICLE and the API layers that exists. The CUDA API which we also call ICICLE Core is the lowest level and is comprised of CUDA kernels which implement all primitives such as MSM for example as well as C++ wrappers which expose these methods for different curves.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The diagram above displays the general architecture of ICICLE and the API layers that exist. The CUDA API, which we also call ICICLE Core, is the lowest level and is comprised of CUDA kernels which implement all primitives such as MSM as well as C++ wrappers which expose these methods for different curves.
```

> ICICLE Core compiled into a shared library this library can be used with our official Golang and Rust wrappers or you can implement a wrapper for it in any language of your desire.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ICICLE Core compiles into a static library. This library can be used with our official Golang and Rust wrappers or you can implement a wrapper for it in any language.
```

Based on this dependency architecture, the ICICLE repository has three main sections, each of which is independent from the other.

- ICICLE core

> - ICICLE Rust bindings

Reviewer: Github won't let me comment on line 23...

"ICICLE Core would typically be compiled into a ~~shared~~static library and used in a third party language such as Rust, Golang or Python."

> Based on this dependency architecture the ICICLE repository has three main sections, each section is independent from the other.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Based on this dependency architecture, the ICICLE repository has three main sections, each of which is independent from the other.
```

[ICICLE core](https://github.com/ingonyama-zk/icicle/tree/main/icicle) contains all the low level CUDA code implementing primitives such as [points](https://github.com/ingonyama-zk/icicle/tree/main/icicle/primitives) and [MSM](https://github.com/ingonyama-zk/icicle/tree/main/icicle/appUtils/msm). There also exists higher level C++ wrappers to expose the low level CUDA primitives ([example](https://github.com/ingonyama-zk/icicle/blob/main/icicle/curves/bn254/msm.cu)).

> "ICICLE Core would typically be compiled into a shared static library and used in a third party language such as Rust, Golang or Python.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ICICLE Core would typically be compiled into a static library and used in a third party language such as Rust, Golang or Python.
```

### ICICLE Rust and Golang bindings

- [ICICLE Rust bindings](https://github.com/ingonyama-zk/icicle/tree/main/wrappers/rust)
- [ICICLE Golang bindings](https://github.com/ingonyama-zk/icicle/tree/main/goicicle) 

> These bindings allow you you to easily use ICICLE in a Rust or Golang project. Setting up Golang bindings requires a bit of extra steps compared to the Rust bindings which utilize the `cargo build` tool.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These bindings allow you to easily use ICICLE in a Rust or Golang project. Setting up Golang bindings requires a bit of extra steps compared to the Rust bindings which utilize the `cargo build` tool.
```

### Setting up ICICLE and running tests

> The objective of this guide is to make sure you can run the ICICLE Core, Rust and Golang tests, achieving this will make sure you know how to setup ICICLE and run a ICICLE program. For the sake of simplicity we will be using the ICICLE docker container as our environment, of course you may install the prerequisites on your machine and follow the same commands in your terminal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The objective of this guide is to make sure you can run the ICICLE Core, Rust and Golang tests. Achieving this will ensure you know how to setup ICICLE and run a ICICLE program. For simplicity, we will be using the ICICLE docker container as our environment, however, you may install the prerequisites on your machine and follow the same commands in your terminal.
```

docker exec -it icicle_container bash
```

Lets make sure that we have the correct CUDA version before proceeding

```
nvcc --version
```

You should see something like this

```
nvcc: NVIDIA (R) Cuda compiler driver
Copyright (c) 2005-2023 NVIDIA Corporation
Built on Tue_Aug_15_22:02:13_PDT_2023
Cuda compilation tools, release 12.2, V12.2.140
Build cuda_12.2.r12.2/compiler.33191640_0
```

Make sure the release version is at least 12.0.

#### ICICLE Core

> ICICLE Core is found under [`/icicle`](https://github.com/ingonyama-zk/icicle/tree/main/icicle). To build and run its test first:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ICICLE Core is found under [`/icicle`](https://github.com/ingonyama-zk/icicle/tree/main/icicle). To build and run the tests first:
```

```
cd icicle

> ```

Reviewer: This might be confusing to someone not familiar with the repo structure since we mention that icicle core can be found under `/icicle` above. Someone might think to try to cd in `project_root/icicle/icicle` which doesn't exist.

I suggest adding the following after the command:
```You should now be in the `<project_root>/icicle` directory```

We are going to compile ICICLE for a specific curve

```
mkdir -p build
cmake -S . -B build -DCURVE=bn254 -DBUILD_TESTS=ON
cmake --build build
```

> `-DBUILD_TESTS=ON` compiles the tests as well, without this flag `ctest` wont work.

Reviewer: Compiling is either for tests or an static library archive. Compiling with `-DBUILD_TESTS=ON` is not in addition to the archive file

```suggestion
`-DBUILD_TESTS=ON` compiles the tests, without this flag `ctest` wont work.
```

`-DCURVE=bn254` tells the compiler which curve to build. You can find a list of supported curves [here](https://github.com/ingonyama-zk/icicle/tree/main/icicle/curves).

> The output in `build` folder should include the shared libraries for the compiled curve.

Reviewer: The archive output will only be available when `-DBUILD_TESTS=ON` is not supplied.

To run the test 

```
cd build
ctest
```

#### ICICLE Rust

The rust bindings work by first compiling the CUDA shared libraries as seen [here](https://github.com/ingonyama-zk/icicle/blob/main/wrappers/rust/icicle-curves/icicle-bn254/build.rs). The compilation of CUDA and the Rust library is all handled by the rust build toolchain.

Similar to ICICLE Core here we also have to compile per curve.

Lets compile curve `bn254`

```
cd wrappers/rust/icicle-curves/icicle-bn254
```

Now lets build our library

```
cargo build --release
```

> This may take a couple minutes since we are compiling both the CUDA and Rust code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This may take a couple of minutes since we are compiling both the CUDA and Rust code.
```

> To run test

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To run the tests
```

```
cargo test -- --test-threads=1
```

> `--test-threads=1` is needed because currently some tests might interfere with one another inside the GPU.

Reviewer: I'm not sure `--test-threads=1` is necessary anymore, lets double check with @DmytroTym

Author: asked

We also include some benchmarks

```
cargo bench

> ```

Reviewer: i don't think we are planning on having benchmarks at the release of v1.0.0

Author: yeah they are all skipped but its ok, it will just say skipped.

#### ICICLE Golang

The Golang bindings are a bit more of a manual process. We start by compiling a shared library for a curve we want to use in this case `bn254`.

```
cd goicicle
```

Now lets build our shared library

```
make libbn254.so
```

The current supported options are `libbn254.so`, `libbls12_381.so`, `libbls12_377.so`, `libbw6_671.so` and `all` to compile all curves. The resulting `.so` files are the compiled shared libraries for each curve.

`make clean` will remove compiled shared libraries.

Before using the shared libraries we need to make our OS aware of them

```
export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=$LD_LIBRARY_PATH/<path_to_shared_libs>
```

> > :warning: **Warning**: On some systems, despite exporting `LD_LIBRARY_PATH`, the system still won't be able to locate our shared libraries. In this case, try the following steps.

Reviewer: I think the proper way in Docusaurus is to use [Admonitions](https://docusaurus.io/docs/markdown-features/admonitions)

>
> ```
> export CGO_LDFLAGS="-L/<path_to_shared_lib>/"
> ```

To run test for a specific curve

```
go test ./goicicle/curves/bn254 -count=1
```

> ## Using ICICLE in your project

Reviewer: This is a bit repetitive with the `ICICLE Core` and `ICICLE Rust and Golang bindings` at the beginning of the file

Author: removed it, this information is in the bindings docs

Using ICICLE Core in your project may be abit challenging as you may need to write wrappers and abstractions to make it easier to call the ICICLE methods. We offer developers two binding libraries:

- Golang bindings
- Rust bindings

Using these bindings you can easily use ICICLE in your projects.

> ## Writing new bindings for ICICLE

Reviewer: I'm not sure how useful it is to include this information as each language's FFI requirements and tools are different for linking static and/or shared libraries.

Author: The goal is to give developers who may not be familiar with this an idea on how they can do it. In my mind a developer would read this then go look up how he can achieve a similar result with his selected language.

Reviewer: Ok, can't hurt to have it I guess 👍🏻

Lets review the Golang bindings since its a pretty verbose example (compared to rust which hides it pretty well) of using shared libraries. Golang has a library named `CGO` which can be used to link shared libraries. Here's a basic example on how you can use cgo to link these libraries:

```go
/*
#cgo LDFLAGS: -L/path/to/shared/libs -lbn254 -lbls12_381 -lbls12_377 -lbw6_671
#include "icicle.h" // make sure you use the correct header file(s)
*/
import "C"

func main() {
    // Now you can call the C functions from the ICICLE libraries.
    // Note that C function calls are prefixed with 'C.' in Go code.

    out := (*C.BN254_projective_t)(unsafe.Pointer(p))
	in := (*C.BN254_affine_t)(unsafe.Pointer(affine))

	C.projective_from_affine_bn254(out, in)
}
```

The comments on the first line tell `CGO` which libraries to import as well as which header files to include. You can then call methods which are part of the shared library and defined in the header file, `C.projective_from_affine_bn254` is an example.

If you wish to create your own bindings for a language of your choice we suggest you start by investigating how you can call shared libraries.

### ICICLE Adapters

> One of the core ideas behind ICICLE is the idea that developers can gradually accelerate their provers. Many protocols are written using other cryptographic libraries and completely replacing them may be complex and time consuming.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One of the core ideas behind ICICLE is that developers can gradually accelerate their provers. Many protocols are written using other cryptographic libraries and completely replacing them may be complex and time consuming.
```

> There for we offer adapters for various popular libraries, these adapters allow us to convert points and scalars between different formats defined by various libraries. Here is a list:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Therefore we offer adapters for various popular libraries, these adapters allow us to convert points and scalars between different formats defined by various libraries. Here is a list:
```
